	Dennis Blagirowicz wanted a program to help him to calibrate a dipstick
to be used with a cylindrical tank.  He didn't specify but I presumed he was
referring to a cylindrical tank lying horizontally, i.e., with its axis of
symmetry parallel to the horizontal.  (The case where it's vertical is too
trivial a calculation to merit a program.)

	The program asks for the diameter of the tank.  No input units are
specified but it's important that whatever units are assumed in answering this
question are also the units assumed in answering the next question, the length
of the dipstick that is "wetted" by whatever is stored in the tank.

	(Note that if the diameter of the tank is not known a priori, one can
enter it as unity and interpret the wetted lengths as fractions of what the
fully wetted dipstick (from a full tank) length would be.)

	From these two inputs the program computes how full the tank is as a
percentage of its full volume.

	After that, it requests a percent increment and then calculates the
dipstick wetted length that corresponds to multiples of that percentage of the
tank volume.

	Note that it is not necessary to know the length of the tank to make
any of these calculations.  Once calibrated, a dipstick can be used on any tank
of the same diameter, regardless of its length.

Over time other people asked for the same sort of calculation for other shapes
of tanks.  A sphere is self-explanatory.  Tanks with elliptical cross sections
are sometimes seen on tanker trucks.

'Cartouche' requires some explanation.  A cartouche is the shape of a typical
horse racing track.  Two semi-circular ends separated by straight sections. 
Do not confuse this shape with an ellipse.  An ellipse is a mathematical curve
that is curved at every point.  A cartouche has straight sections.  People
often refer to the cartouche shape as 'elliptical' or 'oval'.  Neither term is
correct.

'Vertical cartouche tank' refers to a tank where the semi-circular portions
are at the top and bottom of the tank and the straight sections are vertical. 
This type is most common. In a 'horizontal cartouche' tank the semi-circular
portions are at either side and the straight sections are horizontal.  I've
only rarely seen examples of this type.

Note that all tanks (except spherical) are assumed to have flat ends.  Tanks
with 'belled' ends require special mathematical treatment.  Unfortunately, bell
shaping varies widely so each must be dealt with on a one-by-one basis -
generalization for the program is not possible.  Contact me if you have such a
case.

Update 7/25/04:  Added a bucket-shaped container.  Like any ordinary bucket,
the program presumes that the big end of the bucket is up and the small end
forms the base.

A barrel-shaped tank poses something of a mathematical problem.  The 'barrel'
is not a rigidly defined mathematical shape.  For an exact computation, one
must know the mathematical equation defining the shape of the sides of the
barrel.  Possibilities range from circular through elliptical to parabolic (and
probably other weird ones I haven't thought of).  I chose to model the sides of
the barrel as sections of an ellipse.  This is a reasonable approximation and
probably adequate for all but the most exacting requirements.  If your
requirements are that exacting, it's unlikely that you'll be using a dipstick
to make measurements.  A horizontal barrel is a harder problem - I'll consider
attacking that if someone has a pressing need.

Update 9/22/05: Added an option for a horizontal cylindrical tank with 'dished'
ends.  The height of the dished portion is calculated as half the overall
length of the tank (input) minus the length of the tank that is purely
cylindrical (input).


