Many measurement tasks are simplified if one can express the location of
various part features in x-y coordinates.  A handy technique for establishing
x-y coordinates involves using a surface plate and a height gauge.  Clamp the
part to a precision 90 degree angle plate.  Using the height gauge, measure
the height of various part features to establish the x coordinates for each
feature.  Rotate the angle plate (and attached part) through 90 degrees and
measure the same part features to establish the y coordinates for each
feature.

Obviously, the x-y coordinates so obtained for each feature will be referenced
to the surface plate.  Generally this is not the most convenient reference for
checking dimensions or calculating functions of the coordinates (e.g. feature
to feature spacing, angles, etc.)

That's where this program becomes useful.  Enter the raw data measured with
the height gauge into the data file.  Now, using the program, you can perform
a number of useful operations on the data.

Reference

Select this option from the menu.  You will be instructed to select a
reference point.  When you do, the selected point becomes the origin of the
x-y coordinate system and all the other points are referenced to it.

Align

You pick two points.  The first becomes the origin of the x-y coordinates as
above.  Then the coordinate system is rotated so that the second point picked
lies on the x-axis.  

Distance

By selecting any two points the program will report the distance between them.
You can accomplish the same thing by making one of the points the origin. 
Then the radius displayed for the second point is the distance separating
them.

Pitch Circle

Select three points.  The program will calculate the radius and center of the
circle that passes through all three points.

In all cases, the program displays the x and y coordinates in the current
coordinate system as well as the radius and angle to each of the points.  In
standard mathematical notation, the angle is measured positive ccw from the
current x-axis.  Radius is, of course, measured relative to the origin.

This program is so general that I won't attempt to give examples of why one
might want to do all the operations listed above.  If you're comfortable with
Cartesian coordinate systems you'll understand.  If not, it's worth doing a
bit of studying.

The menu contains a Snap option.  This is "on" by default when the program
begins but can be toggled by clicking on the menu entry.  When on, clicking
anywhere near a point in the plot window will cause the program to select the
nearest data point - the selection "snaps" to the nearest data point.  When
off, the exact location of the mouse cursor is selected.

If you can think of other menu options that might be useful, let me know via
email (mklotz@alum.mit.edu) and I'll consider adding them.
