Update: 2/13/2003

Ron McCabe asked about the constant I used in the formula for calculating the
correct tap drill diameter.  

tap drill diameter = basic major diamter - K * %depth-of-thread / tpi

For K, I had been using 1.299..., but Ron indicated that his copy of
Machinery's Handbook suggested 1.082...

My copy of MH recommends 1.299... for the "American National Thread Form" and
1.082... for the "American Unified Thread Form".  Although it's all a bit
fuzzy, apparently the smaller number accounts for the truncated thread crest
that's part of the Unified specification.

The Unified thread form was introduced ca WWII to provide interchangeability
among parts manufactured by the Allies.

First, a couple of remarks.  Most taps and dies cut sharp crested threads.  A
thread cut on a lathe will have a sharp crest unless the operator purposely
truncates it.  Use of the 1.299... constant in the program produces tap drill
sizes that agree perfectly with published charts available from many reputable
sources (including tap suppliers).  The 1.082... constant produces somewhat
larger tap drill recommendations, although the differences aren't large enough
to make or break the average home machinist's project.  There is the
possibility that some professional machinist might use the program, however.

So, I copped out.  I altered the program to request from the user the Thread
Form standard he desired.  This way, the professional can pick his nit if he
wishes to.  The default answer to this question is the National Thread Form
(the 1.299... constant) so the amateur cutting sharp crested threads can use
the default (just hit Enter when the program asks the question) and get results
that agree with the published tables.

I did something similar for metric threads.  MH recommends 1.082... for ISO
Metric Thread Form but using this value produces tap drill sizes a bit larger
than what is in the published tables.  Using the 1.299... number, as with
Imperial threads, produces values that agree with the tables.  Again I left
the choice up to the program user.  Again, if you're cutting sharp crested
threads, use the default (1.299...) if you want values that agree with
published table values.

The whole issue strikes me as a tempest in a teapot.  The 'right' percentage
depth of thread is hardly something that can be determined to three or four
digits of precision.  The drill he's going to use is only approximately what
the theoretical value derived from the equation says.  Maybe if you're making
parts for the next Mars explorer the difference between 74% and 76% depth of
thread matters but, for the home machinist, it's irrelevant.
