	For less than super-critical applications, one of the easiest way to
divide a circle into N parts is to make a two plate vernier.  Suppose you need
N=12 divisions.  Imagine two circular plates, one with three equally spaced
holes and the other with four equally spaced holes.  Now if one of these
plates is held fixed and the other is rotated so that various combinations of
the holes in the two plates come into alignment, each of the twelve divisions
(30 degrees) of the workpiece attached to the movable plate can be achieved. 
In this simple case, we would need to drill only seven holes whereas a single
plate would need twelve holes - not a major saving but consider that we can
get 360 divisions by drilling only 76 holes.

	The advantages of two-plate verniers:

		FEWER HOLES TO DRILL

		Since there are fewer holes to drill, the required plates
		can be smaller - making for a more compact structure.

		Once you have a collection of same sized plates, you may get
		lucky and already have one of the plates you need for some
		dividing project.

	The disadvantages:

		Deciding which combination of plates to use can be
		mathematically tedious.

		Deciding which holes to align to achieve a given angular
		placement can be confusing - mistakes are VERY easy.

		For good accuracy, you may still need some dividing equipment
		to space out the holes in the plates.  In an emergency however,
		you can mark out the plates by hand.  To divide a circle of
		diameter D into N divisions, set your dividers to a length of
		D*SIN(180/N) and mark off the circumference.

	This program computes the best two plate vernier combination for the
input number of subdivisions of a circle. When a two plate combination is
possible, the combination that requires drilling the minimum number of holes
consistent with obtaining the required number of subdivisions is found.  It
may happen that the best combination involves drilling *more* holes than would
be required for a single plate.  This is detected and the user is alerted to
make the simpler single plate.

	When found, the hole pairs needed to obtain each subdivision are
printed in sequential order and written to a data file that you can print for
reference. The lettered holes are labeled first with the upper case alphabet
and then with the lower case alphabet.  If more than 52 holes are required in
the lettered plate, primes (') are used as indicators.

The limit on the number of subdivisions is 4,294,967,295 but, unless you have
an unnatural affection for your drill press, you'll never get anywhere near
that number.
