In the 6/01 issue of "Machinist's Workshop", Peter F. Lott described an
interesting technique he uses when chasing metric threads on his Imperial
leadscrew lathe.

We all know that the thread dial on the lathe can't be used for this operation.
Conventional wisdom says that, to maintain registration, we need to leave the
half-nuts engaged and run the lathe in reverse to move the carriage to the
right prior to making the next cut on the lathe.  Especially for long threads,
this can become quite tedious.

Peter quite correctly points out that, if we disengage the half-nuts and move
the carriage a distance to the right that is an integer multiple of the thread
pitch *and* is also an integral multiple of the leadscrew pitch, we can
reengage the half-nuts without losing registration on the thread we're cutting.
He goes on to supply a table of distances to move for various combinations of
metric threads and Imperial leadscrews.

I wanted to explore techniques for computing the information in the tables so I
wrote STICK.  The name refers to the technique described in the article of
cutting a stick to the appropriate length and using it to accurately reposition
the carriage at the end of a pass.

While writing the program, I realized that Pete's process can be easily
extended to cutting Imperial threads on an Imperial leadscrew lathe and, for
the benefit of our metric friends, cutting Imperial threads on a metric
leadscrew lathe.  While I was at it, I covered the last possibility, metric
threads on a metric leadscrew lathe.  Metric on metric and Imperial on Imperial
aren't really needed but obtaining them was trivial after the metric on
Imperial code was written so what the heck - maybe someone would like to have
them.

Update 5 December 2002

Jeff Sauer sent me a note describing an alternate approach where the threading
dial is calibrated and used as a measuring tool in lieu of the calibrated
stick.  I've included his idea here for those of you who might like to try it.

-------------------------
Hi Marv:

I've found your software utilites very very useful.... Thanks
for coding these gems. I'm most grateful for CHANGE.EXE,
and lately have been trying STICK.EXE, although sometimes
the stick movement is more bothersome than reversing direction.

One possible improvement to STICK would be to translate the
required carrage motion into rotations of the threading dial.

For example, on my little change gear lathe with a 16 TPI
leadscrew, the threading dial has a 32 tooth gear that meshes
against the leadscrew (thus marking two inches of leadscrew
travel for each revolution of the threading dial). The threading
dial has four scribe marks on it so the feed nut can be engaged
at 2 inch, 1 inch, or 1/2 inch intervals. But if a paper "dial" is
attached on top of the threading dial (this new dial having as many
index lines as gear teeth below) then any integer leadscrew groove
could (with care)  be engaged.

Perhaps STICK could print the paper dial, with as many index marks
as required for the selected cutting job, and print a table showing
a complete sequence of which index marks are used for each
successive pass?

For example... Suppose STICK says my modulo interval is 60 teeth
on my 16 pitch leadscrew. That's two complete revolutions of the
dial minus 1/8 turn (still using my 32 tooth thread dial gear). In this
example, a paper dial with 8 index lines labeled backwards from
0 to 7 would simplify the carrage movement. Each time I reposition
the carrage, I'd go a complete revolution, and then stop on the next
higher number on the dial.

Let me know what you think..... thanks.... Jeff Sauer
-------------------------
