We all know that if one measures the thickness of the wall of a tube with a
conventional micrometer, one will get an erroneous value.  The flat anvil of
the micrometer 'bridges' the inside arc of the tube so the face of the anvil is
held away from the inside surface.  The measurement so obtained is always
larger than the actual thickness of the wall.  The measurement error is worse
the smaller the id of the tube.

The right way to do this is to use a micrometer with a hemispherical anvil. 
The hemisphere will contact the inside wall at a point instead of 'bridging'
and the measurement will be accurate.  In fact, suppliers sell precision balls
that can be attached to the flat anvil with a rubber 'boot' for just this
purpose.

It occurred to me that, if you don't have such a specialty mike or precision
ball, one should be able to calculate the wall thickness if the diameter of the
mike anvil and the (outside) diameter of the tube were known, i.e., could be
measured.  Such a calculation might be useful to people who lacked the proper
equipment for whatever reason.

This program is the result of that musing.

I tried it on a piece of copper pipe, all measurements made at the same
location on the pipe circumference.  The program defaults show the result:

Micrometer anvil diameter [0.249] ?
Tube outside diameter [0.879] ?
Micrometer measurement [0.0625] ?
 
Tube wall thickness = 0.0425

Using a precision ball with the micrometer shows a thickness of 0.0422.  Using
the knife edge tips of the electronic calipers gives a reading of 0.0415.  The
"knife edges" aren't truly knife edges - they have a finite width so they
suffer from a (much lesser) version of the error of the micrometer used
without the ball.

The accuracy of this method will depend on a number of things.
	how nearly cylindrical the tube is
	how uniform the wall thickness is
	how accurately you make the measurements input to the program

Judging from my case above, my *guess* is that I can trust this scheme to
about 0.001 on a nicely tube-like object.  The fact that the calipers read
lower than the mike simply tells me that the calipers aren't as accurate as
the mike - something I already knew.  (That's why we're trying to use a mike to
make the measurement in the first place.  If all we wanted was a rough
measurement, the calipers are faster though demonstrably less accurate.)
