	I have a TINY shop.  Basically, it consists of the space left over in
a two car garage after both cars are parked therein.  Thankfully, the garage
is a bit oversize so there exists about six feet on the left of one and in
front of both of the cars.  Still, for a metalworking shop, it's pretty
confined.  I've had to be very ingenious about how I use the space in such a
way that I can still get useful work done.  I'm sure there are other people
that are making do with limited shop space so maybe some of my ideas,
techniques and hints may be useful.

	The shop contains a 10' workbench, mill/drill, 11x30 lathe, drill
press, metal and wood cutting bandsaws, two grinders, two rolling tool
cabinets, a cart with three machinist's tool chests, an "outdoor" cart and an
assortment of other metalworking tools as well as the normal complement of
homeowner, woodworking and gardening tools.  There's a generous supply of
metals, fasteners and other materials as well. In a word, it's CROWDED.

	The first thing one learns in a tiny shop is that things get stored
WHERE THERE IS SPACE, rather than in "logical" locations.  I'd love to have a
metal storage rack with everything nicely separated by size and material but
that simply isn't possible.  While I'm not illogical about how I store things,
space dictates that at least some things get stored in "available", rather
than "optimal" locations.  I quickly learned that, if I store things in the
first location that occurs to me, when I go to retrieve it, I'm likely to LOOK
in the first location that occurs to me thus speeding the discovery.  While
this often works for me, it doesn't always and, moreover, may be a quirk of my
mind that doesn't work for others.

	I partially solved this problem with the computer.  I keep a file
(WOIST.TXT - German for "Where is it?") where I note the location of
infrequently used items whose location I EXPECT TO FORGET.  Don't make an
attempt to document the location of everything in your shop - you won't forget
where your micrometer is - just include what will escape your mind - if you're
over thirty years of age, you'll have a good idea of what that might be.  It
takes some discipline to keep this file updated but it's a small price to pay
for your lack of shop acreage.  It's a lot easier to load the file into an
editor and use the embedded search function to hunt for an item than it is to
turn the whole shop upside down looking for that unique fastener.  Try to make
the descriptions in the file include something easily searched for.  Entries
like "screws" aren't terribly useful - include at least something specific -
"socket head cap screws, brass wood screws, etc." so you can find it easily
with the search function.  If you're the least bit clever about how you
describe things in the file, you'll be able to find things you forgot you had.
With the advent of digital cameras, one could also store pictures of
tool/supply "caches" and search the shop visually for some item of interest.

	BTW, I have another version of this file where I note the location of
things secreted away in my overburdened den.  It's saved my ... several times.

	Things will get stored on top of other things in a small shop.  It's
unavoidable.  When you have to use whatever's on the bottom, moving all the
junk on top of it can be a pain.  Buy some large containers - I use 1' x 3' x
6" plastic bins I found at a liquidator.  Store the items in the bins and
stack the bins. When you need to move things you only have to move bins
instead of many small items.  I realize that's pretty obvious but, sometimes
we overlook the most obvious timesavers.

	The second thing to remember in a tiny shop is to think VERTICALLY. 
If you can't expand horizontally, the only direction left to go is up.  One of
my more inspired ideas was to build a workbench that spanned the hood of one
of the cars.  Its two "legs" are cross-braced box frames made of 2 x 4's that
support 2 x 4 stringers that span the hood of the car when it is parked.  The
stringers support a 4 x 8' sheet of 3/4" plywood.  On the back (car windshield
side) of this work surface is a 1 x 8' shelf mounted 2' above the surface and
supported by end plates that bolt solidly to the work surface.  Originally
designed (and used) as an electronic workbench (hence the shelf for test
instruments and power supplies), it's since become a place for my belt sander,
sharpeners, buffers and some smaller tools.  It's no substitute for a REAL
workbench, but more than adequate for fine handwork and such and the warmth
from the engine compartment of the car keeps you toasty in winter - not that
that is a major issue in Southern California.  You might want to throw a drop
cloth over the hood of the car if you're doing anything dirty.

	Many places sell metal shelving units that reach 6' high or higher. 
Another easy way to utilize vertical space.  I have one next to the tailstock
end of my lathe.  The shelf at lathe height is a handy place for lathe tools,
centerdrills, collets, etc. while the less conveniently placed shelves hold
things I use only occasionally.

	Shelving "suspended" from overhead rafters works well too.  Just
remember to use heavy gauge steel for the "suspenders" - don't ask why I know
that.  Make sure the bottom edge of the suspended shelves are higher than head
height for anyone who frequents your shop.  If over heavy machinery (not a
good idea), allow space for rigger equipment used to move same.  My shelves
are overkill - 1 x 12"'s on 2 x 4" framing - allowing me to store even
moderately heavy woodworking power tools overhead.  I live in earthquake
country so edge lips to prevent "walk-offs" are essential.

	Another utilization of vertical space involves my IV stand (IV.JPG)

	Every shop should have an IV stand - and not just for transfusions
when you cut off your fingers on the table saw.  My daughter had a cheap desk
chair that broke.  I threw the broken parts out but just couldn't part with
the nice, five-caster base that looked so useful.  I got a length of closet
pole and mounted it to the base.  On the top of the pole (cut off in picture),
I mounted a sturdy crossbar - voila, an IV stand.  Originally I wanted it to
mount the two outdoor flood lamps in adjustable reflectors.  That required a
junction box and electrical fittings so now I had an "electrical" IV stand. 
When working under the hood of the car, I wheel it next to me, plug it in and,
at last, have adequate light to see what I'm doing.  The lamps are also
impromptu photo floods when photographing small objects in the garage.

	I had a circle of plywood from a cable spool.  Made a clamp that
attaches to the pole and supports the circular shelf.  Holds the junction box
and attachments for the Dremels as well as the odd tool when I use the lights
outside while working in a dark corner.

	In such a cramped shop, a place to hang freshly painted items while
they dry is always hard to find.  I hung some chains from the crossbar and
fashioned some hooks from which to hang things.  Easily wheeled into position
when in use or outside in the sun for faster drying, it's now an essential item
in most painting projects.

	Since it has electricity and can be wheeled close to where I'm working,
I hung two of my three Dremel tools from it.  Out of my way when not in use,
they're hanging within easy reach when it's wheeled next to the workbench and
the lamps provide plenty of extra light for those miniscule jobs.  Moreover,
since the Dremel flexible shaft tool is hanging (as in a dentist's office), the
shaft doesn't get kinked or "lash around" knocking things off the workbench.

	The next hint is a fairly obvious one - put everything you can on
wheels.  Even if your shop doesn't have to share its space with two parked
cars, having things on wheels makes it a lot easier to rearrange things to
your convenience when working on something that requires a bit of elbow room. 
Rolling tool cabinets with drawers (I have two) are the optimal if you can
afford them.  New they're expensive but look about for commercial liquidators
or "clearance sales" at local industries.  Garage sales may yield rolling
1950's vintage metal kitchen carts which, though not fit for heavy stuff, are
still useful.  Build your own, too.  The rolling legs on my import horizontal
metal-cutting bandsaw were a complete joke.  I got a discarded pallet (free)
and chain-sawed it into halves.  Mounted (locking) casters from the junk box
to one half.  Now the bandsaw is securely bolted to a rigid base that can be
rolled into a comfortable position when used in the vertical mode.  For
horizontal work, a purpose left 3" wide slot in the "stuff" next to the saw
allows me to cut anything up to 3" diameter without moving it.  The gap
between top and bottom of the pallet is used to store lengths of stock
(catalogued in the computer file) and spare bandsaw blades.  A plastic waste
basket "lashed" to the pallet catches saw swarf for easy disposal.  BTW, the
extra height afforded by the pallet and casters eases my back strain when
using it - I'm a 6+ footer.

	Another fairly obvious hint is: Don't store things in their original
containers when that approach makes sense.  While you probably want to keep
your gage blocks in their original beautiful wooden chest just to protect them,
all those unneeded "blister packs" are just taking up shop space.  Let's face
it, if you have a small shop, probably you are NEVER going to make an
arrangement that saves you HUGE amounts of space.  You have to go at it one
cubic inch at a time.  You'll be surprised at how those small savings add up to
the ability to house more "junk" usefully.  The metal cabinets with a plethora
of those awful little plastic drawers (available at any homeowner's store) do
a great job of consolidating all those odd bits and pieces.  Number the
drawers and document the contents on the computer - printing the contents on a
drawer label just means a lot of messing about when you reorganize to save
space.  Print out the "drawer index" and keep it in the notebook in the shop.

	You do have a shop notebook, don't you?  I consider mine the second
most useful tool after my calculator.  Metalworking is a complex hobby -
notebooks are essential.  In fact, I xerox everything twice and keep a rough
duplicate of the shop notebook in the den just so I don't have to run to the
garage to check on a noted item.

	A related idea is to store things in other "things'" containers.  My
height gauge has a nice wooden case but most of the volume inside it is empty
because of the somewhat odd shape of the tool.  I filled up the unused space
with light (so as to not damage the height gauge), seldom used items.  Now, I
just KNOW I'm going to forget where I secreted those items because the location
is so counter-intuitive.  This is where the computer file really pays off.

	By now you're probably thinking I'm pretty anal.  Well, I suppose I
am.  OTOH, if you want to get any useful work done in a tiny shop, you had
better learn to be anal, else you'll be overwhelmed in no time.  What on earth
is so wrong about being organized, anyway?  We profess to admire it in other
people, yet eschew it as some sort of Freudian flaw when we see ourselves
doing it.  Personally I think the offensive characterization is just people's
way of dealing with their envy at an ability they can't muster.  Kind of like
making fun of the foibles of intelligent people to excuse your own
incompetence.

	A good way to (re)organize a tiny shop is to keep a list of every tool
you used in the last three months.  Now arrange your shop to make those tools
easily accesible.  My bet is that, if you do this, you'll find that you soon
converge on a utilitarian arrangement that accomodates 80% of your needs.

	Make everything do double, or better, triple duty.  I have a bench
"anvil" made of a heavy block of steel with holes of various sizes drilled
into it.  Great for removing spring pins, bending stock, etc.  Two orthogonal
sides are fitted with homemade toolmaker's clamps.  Clamping parts at 90
degrees for soldering is easy.  On edge, the block and its clamp become a
handy micrometer stand.  Since I'm unlikely to be using the micrometer while
soldering or pin pounding, the three uses for the block are satisfactorily
self-exclusive and don't get in each other's "way".  There are endless
variants of this sort of synergism - limited only by your ingenuity.  Even if
the uses mutually "interfere" (e.g., hammers with interchangeable heads),
remember that you're in a hobby, not a "time-is-money", commercial shop. 
Learn to enjoy preparing for the task as much as doing it.

	If you make tools, jigs, etc. for yourself, try to arrange for them to
store their own accessories.  Many items that have a "handle" of some sort
don't need a solid handle.  Drill it out, make a threaded cap and use the
space to store small accessories that would require a larger container if
stored separately.  Not only does this save the odd cubic inch but it makes it
easier to find the bits and pieces when needed.  On several occasions I've
soldered the right size allen wrench for adjustments into the "inside" of the
threaded cap.  Often the accessory can be integrated into a "decorative"
element.  That lovely knurled brass finial on the height gauge rod can pull
out to reveal a tiny adjustment screwdriver on its end.

	Even the garage DOOR can be used.  In Southern California we have one
piece doors that swing up and, given the weather, I generally have the door up
when working.  I needed a vertical frame for holding large blueprints for easy
reading.  No space for such an awkward object.  I made a light frame of wooden
strips and hinged it to the inside of the garage door.  A hook keeps it from
swinging down and hitting the cars when the door opens.  The blueprints are
pinned to the frame.  Now, with the car out of the garage (normal working
mode), I can swing the frame down if the door is up and have the prints
vertical.  If it's cool and the door is closed, the prints are vertical on the
inside of the door and easily read.

	My workbench top is cluttered with many of the small tools that I use
on a regular basis.  Used to be, when I needed a large free space to work on
the odd bigger project, I would move everything "somewhere else" to make
space.  Too time consuming and frustrating.  I built a 2 x 4' table top that
has hinged legs (a la a card table) on one end.  The other end attaches
securely to a piece of 2 x 4 bolted to the workbench front lip.  It folds up
into a flat package that stores nicely against the side of the over-the-car
bench.  I can instantly get a large temporary work area without disturbing the
regular workbench arrangement.  The best thing about it is that when it's in
use, the car CAN'T be parked in the garage.  That means it MUST be put away
after each use and I'm guaranteed that it will not become another clutter
magnet but rather will be available for instant use the next time it's needed.

=============================================================================

	Send me your own personal small-shop hints to add to this file.


E-mail: mklotz@alum.mit.edu
Home Shop Freeware - Tools for People Who Build Things
Home Page: http://www.geocities.com/CapeCanaveral/Hall/4425
