	Lots of people seem to have difficulty with change gears.  I wrote this
simple program to help deal with the problem.

	Be forewarned, I use a lathe with a quick change gear box so, if I've
overlooked something important, let me know.

	Enter the effective lead screw pitch and your available change gears
into the data file, "CHANGEX.DAT".  Note that "effective lead screw pitch" is
the pitch of the thread that would be cut if the spindle rotation were the same
as the lead screw rotation (1:1 gearing).  For most lathes this is simply the
lead screw pitch but there may be some oddballs out there.

	The program asks for the thread pitch you wish to cut.  Fractional
values (e.g. 11.5 tpi) are allowable inputs.  If you're using the gears to
obtain a desired feed rate (e.g., 1/16" feed per spindle revolution), simply
convert the feed rate to the equivalent thread pitch (16 tpi in this case) and
input that.

	The program asks for an allowable error (expressed in percent) in the
final gear ratio.

	The program will first attempt to find a single gear pair that matches
the required ratio within the allowed error.  If it fails to find one it will
then attempt to find two pairs.  Failing that three pairs are examined.  Most
banjos don't have space for more than three gear pairs so the program doesn't
search beyond three pairs.

	Whenever a ratio with suitably small error is found it is printed out
along with the actual ratio and the percentage error in the pitch if that
pairing is used.  All satisfactory ratios are printed so the user can pick
the one that best fits the banjo without fouling.  Note that once an acceptable
solution is found, larger numbers of gear pairs will not be tried.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Update 5/9/01

John Midgley of the UK is using change gears *in conjunction* with a
quick-change gear box on his Myford - don't ask - it makes sense in his
application.  He wanted to know if I could make the effective lead screw pitch
mentioned above a variable in the computation.  I did.  The data file now
allows one to enter a list of (up to 100) "effective lead screw pitches" that
the program will use in trying to find a solution.

For those of you using this program for its more mundane purpose of selecting
change gears in the absence of a quick change box, no worry.  Just enter the
single "effective lead screw pitch" mentioned above.  The program will
dutifully "loop" through that single value and produce the output you need.

John also wanted the program to send its output to a data file for easier post
processing - most notably to find those gear combinations that would not
interfere in the geometry of his machine.  That idea seemed like a good plan
for most users so I implemented it.


