Tom Roach in South Africa needed a program to calculate the position of a
piston gudgeon pin (that's wrist pin in American English) as a function of the
other engine parameters - connecting rod length, crank radius, crank angle,
etc.  When the program runs it requests these engine parameters and then
produces an on-screen graph of the pin position.  Actually two graphs are
produced.  The yellow one references pin position to the crank center - a
relation that's of value to me.  Tom prefers to reference the pin position to
its location when the piston is at top-dead-center (tdc) because this value is
used directly in locating the cylinder ports in a two stroke engine.  The red
curve provides this referencing.

While the graph is on the screen, it is possible to use the mouse to click on
any point on the curves to return the coordinates (crank angle, pin position)
for that location.  When done with the graph, hit Escape or click on the Exit
option in the onscreen menu and the program will then generate a data file of
the plotted parameters (CROD.DAT) which you can print and carry to the shop for
reference.

If you make use of this program, you would be well advised to examine another
of the programs on my page, CONROD, which can be used to calculate the
allowable clearance between the connecting rod and the cylinder wall.

E-mail: mklotz@alum.mit.edu
Home Shop Freeware - Tools for People Who Build Things
http://www.geocities.com/mklotz.geo

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Tom supplied some words of his own regarding this program.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

This program calculates the position of the gudgeon (wrist) pin in the
cylinder in relation to the position of the engine's crankshaft as it rotates.
For example, timing diagrams usually show the opening and closing of
valves (4-stroke engines) or exhaust and inlet ports (2-stroke engines) in
degrees before or after either TDC or Bottom Dead Centre (BDC).  These
calculations enable you to convert a timing diagram written "degrees" into the
position of the piston in the cylinder as measured from Top Dead Centre (TDC).
Besides being useful to people building small engines, this program can be
used by those adjusting (blueprinting) the valve timing on a full-sized
motorbike or car engine.

Of course, the gudgeon pin is not at the top of the cylinder, but this does
not matter as usually the top of the piston corresponds with the top of the
cylinder. If this is not the case, then the difference will have to be added
or subtracted.

Please note that it does not matter to the application if the measurements you
enter are in inches or metric, just do not mix the two systems. For small
engines, an interval of five degrees is recommended. For a larger engine, big
enough to power a bike or a car, then a one- degree interval will probably be
appropriate.
