	 Every time I need to machine a precise angle, I'm put off by the
tedium of setting up the sinebar.  Besides, sinebars and angle blocks are
expensive given their infrequent use in the home shop.

	I've hit on a nice way to construct a simple, accurate sinebar for
ANY angle in almost less time than it takes to set up a commercial one.  The
idea depends on the fact that most home machinists have a lathe and can
make cylinders with very accurate diameters.

	If two cylinders of unequal diameter (d1 < d2) are held such that their
center-to-center distance is R, anything laid across the top of the two
cylinders will lie at an angle of:

		theta = 2*arcsin(0.5*(d2-d1)/R)

	Make two identical links of 1/8" thick steel about 1/4" wide and drill
and ream for 1/8" pins spaced R inches apart.  I chose R to be 3" (about 3/4 of
the width of my milling machine vise jaws).  It's best to gang drill and ream
the holes so both links have identically spaced holes.

	Now, let's say we need a sinebar for angle theta = 10 deg.  Choose a
convenient size for d1, say 3/8".  Make a 3/8" diameter cylinder long enough
to hold the workpiece and drill and ream it for a 1/8" pin.  Calculate the
diameter of the second cylinder according to the formula:

		d2 = 2*R*sin(0.5*theta) + d1

	For our example, d2 turns out to be 0.898".  Make a cylinder of this
diameter and drill/ream for a 1/8" pin.

	Connect the two cylinders with the links and pins and there you
are - a custom sinebar, preset, ready for use.  Just lay it down, clamp the
work on top and start making chips.

	In order to fit on the links, d1+d2 must be less that 2*R.  You may
have to fiddle with d1 and R a bit to find a combination that will work for
your application.  Once you've acquired a collection of various d1 cylinders,
you'll have little more to do than selecting an available one and making the
d2 cylinder needed for the desired angle.

	How accurate is this method?  The math is a bit messy for the general
case, but, for the example given, a one thou error in the diameter of either
cylinder will cause an angle error of 0.01 deg.  A one thou error in R will
cause an angle error of 0.002 deg.  More than accurate enough for most
applications.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Update 5/16/01

I was out in the shop today to machine a cylinder (according to the plan
above) for a 1.5 deg sinebar I wanted for a clearance angle I needed to cut
when it hit me (sharp slap to forehead), "we don't need no steenkin' links". 
If I take two cylinders of diameters d1 (smaller) and d2 (larger) and lay them
in contact with each other on a horizontal plate, a flat plate placed across
them will form an angle, theta, with the horizontal given by:

		d1/d2 = (1-sin(theta/2))/(1+sin(theta/2))

The link isn't needed - the cylinders provide their own spacing if you adhere
to the formula above.

So I came back to the computer and wrote SINENL (SINE-No-Link) to implement
this calculation.  Using it, I decided that cylinders of 0.75" (what I had to
hand) and 0.7306" (ok, call it 0.731") would do the trick.  Turned a piece of
my 0.75" bar down to 0.731", parted it off along with an equal length chunk of
the original stock and stuffed both chunks up against a stop in the milling
machine vise with a bit of modeling clay pusher to hold them in contact.  Put
the part on top of the cylinders, clamped the vise shut, applied cutter, and
voila, a nice 1.5 deg champher.


