I want an accurate division plate with 14 divisions.  Not a problem - just whip
out the dividing head and ....  But wait!  The dividing head doesn't have a 14
hole plate (we'll pretend).  What to do?  I need a 14 hole plate to make a 14
hole plate.  The proverbial chicken-egg problem.

Well, they didn't have a dividing head when they made the first plate.  There
must be some way to do it that doesn't require a dividing head.  It's either
that or I have to admit to myself that the dividing head sitting in front of me
doesn't really exist.

The technique described here requires only a lathe and a bit of mathematics.
I can't provide an historical reference that proves this was how the first
accurate plate was made but, nevertheless, it's a fascinating technique and may
serve you in good stead some day.

Imagine you've turned yourself a top-hat shaped piece of steel.  Now imagine
you've turned 14 circular disks.  When you paste these disks on the brim of the
hat, touching (what I'll call) the 'crown' of the hat, they all just fit,
simultaneously touching the adjacent disks and the crown.  Voila, a '14 hole'
dividing plate.  All that's required is to make a suitable detent to locate
between adjacent disks and you've got a dividing plate.  With such a
contrivance it would be easy to use it as a locator to drill a more
conventional dividing head plate.

If the diameter of the crown of the hat is known, it's only a bit of
elementary trigonometry to compute the required disk diameter for any number
of divisions. The attached .jpg file illustrates the arrangement and the math
that must be done.  While straightforward, a small program makes things
easier. After all, the program will never transpose a digit, forget a term,
take a cosine instead of a sine or make any of those other idiotic mistakes
we're all so prone to make.  Moreover, you'll probably want to experiment a
bit to get a combination of crown diameter and disk diameter that fits your
available stock.  That means solving the same equation several times.  So much
easier with a program than a calculator.


