	The perfect gas law is one of the handiest tools in the physicist's
arsenal.  It says that the product of pressure and volume for a perfect gas is
proportional to the temperature.

			PV = nRT
where:

		P = pressure; V = volume; T = temperature
		n = number of moles of (assumed perfect) gas
		R = gas constant = 8.20545E-2 liter-atm/(øK-mole)

	Casual users of the law often have difficulty with the units involved
and the interpretation of 'moles'.  I wrote GAS.C to handle the most common
types of units and make calculations a little more straightforward.

	A mole of gas is an amount of gas that contains Avogadro's number of
molecules.

	Avogadro's number = 6.02308 E23 = number of molecules in a mole of gas

	Thus a mole of gas always contains the same NUMBER of molecules, but,
since those molecules weigh a different amount for each gas, the WEIGHT of a
mole of gas DIFFERS from one gas to another.  The weight of a mole of gas is
equal to the atomic weight of the gas molecule expressed in grams.  Oxygen has
an atomic weight of 16 but oxygen gas exists as O2 molecules (two oxygen atoms
bonded together in a molecule) so a mole of oxygen weighs 32 grams. Nitrogen
has an atomic weight of 14 so a mole of N2 weighs 28 grams.  Air is 80%
nitrogen (N2) and 20% oxygen (O2) so a mole of air weighs:

		0.8 * 28 + 0.2 * 32 = 28.8 or about 29 gm

	Basically, GAS allows you to enter three of the four variable
quantities in the gas equation and it will find the unknown quantity.  For
instance, if you know temperature, volume and amount of gas (moles), it can find
the volume.

	When data is requested, a choice of units is offered.  For example:

		Pressure [atm]osphere, (psi), (kpa)scal ?

	The brackets on 'atm' indicate that it is the default unit.  If you
enter '1' in answer to the question, it's the same as entering '1atm' and the
program will assume you mean a pressure of one atmosphere.  On the other hand,
if you enter '14.7psi' in response, it will assume you mean 14.7 pounds per
square inch (about one atmosphere) and automatically convert that to the units
of atmospheres used internally by the program.  The common metric unit of
pressure is kilopascals and (lucky) people in metric countries can enter
'100kpa' (about one atmosphere).

	When temperature is requested, the question is:

		Temperature [K], (C), (F) ?

	'F' refers, of course, to the Fahrenheit temperature scale. 'C' refers
to the Celsius scale.  'K' refers to the Kelvin scale, the absolute form of
Celsius temperature measurement used in most scientific calculation and used
internally by the program.  In the Kelvin scale there is an 'absolute zero'
located at -273.16 degrees celsius.  Thus, in the Kelvin scale, room
temperature (about 20 degC) is 293.16 degK.

	This is no place to go into all the possible uses for the gas law but I
will point out that, for isothermal reactions (in which the temperature does
not change), the gas law degenerates into Boyle's Law, which states:

		P1 * V1 = P2 * V2

	That is, the pressure-volume product before the reaction is equal to
the pressure-volume product after the reaction, assuming the amount of gas
involved remains constant.
