Richard in the UK bought a differential dividing head (DDH) and wondered
if it would be possible to write a program to sort out the gearing to be used
for various numbers of divisions.

For those who don't know, a DDH, in addition to the hole plates of a typical
DH, has the ability to add gearing between the spindle and the hole plate so,
as the spindle is turned, the hole plate turns too - at a rate which is some
fraction of the spindle rate determined by the gear ratio used.  This
differential motion between the spindle and hole plate allows one to achieve
divisions not possible using just the hole plates alone without the gearing.
(Differential indexing is discussed at length in Machinery's Handbook.)

The available hole plates and gears are entered in the data file.  When the
program runs, it asks for the number of divisions required.  First it attempts
to produce a conventional (i.e., non-differential) solution without employing
the gears.  (See DIVHEAD for a more complete description of how that process
works.)  If that process fails, it attempts to generate feasible
differential solutions.  These are output to an ASCII data file.  It's quite
possible that there may be many combinations of hole plate and gears that
produce the required divisions.  It's left to the user to select which of
these he wants to implement.

Note that the direction of rotation of the hole plate wrt the crank rotation
is important - it's specified for each solution in the output file.  It will
be necessary for the user to fit whatever idler gears are required to achieve
the proper direction of rotation.

When the program begins to hunt for a differential solution, it requests two
pieces of information - the number of gear pairs to examine and the allowable
accuracy in matching the mathematically required ratio with the gear train.
Start by having the program examine only one gear pair (the default).  If that
doesn't produce an acceptable solution, try two pairs but expect to wait a few
moments.  The possibilities that the program must examine increase
geometrically with the number of pairs allowed.  While it's possible to
specify more than two gear pairs, I doubt that the geometry of the tool would
allow mounting that many gears.

The allowable accuracy chosen depends on the user's requirements.  The default
(0.01%) is a good place to start.  This input can be set to zero to obtain
only gear solutions that perfectly duplicate the mathematical ratio required
(assuming that the gears so required are part of the set specified in the data
file.)

I've never used a tool like this so, if I've gotten something wrong or left
out some useful data, please contact me (mklotz@alum.mit.edu) and set me
straight.
