When designing an engine it's important to ensure that the connecting rod
doesn't foul the bottom of the cylinder when it's at its maximum lateral
extension.  Tom Roach, in South Africa, had this problem and, between us we
arrived at a rational way to define the problem and make the requisite
calculations.

The worst case condition, corresponding to maximum lateral extension of the
con rod, occurs when the angle between the crank radius and the con rod is 90
degrees.  At this position we'd like to know the distance between the con rod
centerline and the bottom edge of the cylinder wall measured along a line
perpendicular to the con rod centerline.  This distance defines the maximum
possible half-width of the con rod at that point consistent with no fouling. 
The engine designer should ensure that his con rod thickness is less than that
value.  In the accompanying jpg diagram (CONROD.JPG), this distance is
measured between the points labeled '2' and '3' when the angle beta is equal
to 90 degrees.

For the convenience of designers (and me), the length A-C, the angle phi and
some of the related lengths are also printed out.

For a complete time history of the position of A, the gudgeon pin location, as
a function of the crank rotation angle, theta, see the program CROD available
on my page.

E-mail: mklotz@alum.mit.edu
Home Shop Freeware - Tools for People Who Build Things
http://www.geocities.com/mklotz.geo

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Tom sent me his own words about this program.  

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

This program calculates the minimum distance between the centre-line of an
engine's connecting rod and the bottom of the cylinder wall. For example:as an
engine rotates and the  connecting-rod moves up and down the cylinder, the
connecting rod risks fouling the bottom of the cylinder. This will happen if
the rod is too short for the designed width of the cylinder. Under these
circumstances, the distance between the engine's crankshaft and the bottom of
the cylinder will have to be increased and the connecting rod lengthened so
its side-to-side motion is reduced. Alternatively, part of the cylinder wall
can be cut-away so as to produce the required clearance.

This program calculates the minimum distance that is available when the
connecting rod and the crank, to which it is attached, are at right angles to
one and another. If the calculated distance is greater than half the width of
the connecting rod, then there is no danger of the rod fouling the side of the
cylinder.

If you are designing an engine, you will be able to use this program to ensure
your parameters do not result in a catastrophe! You can run the program as
often as you like with a suitable selection of parameters until you find one
set that "fits". This program will save you the effort of drawing a mess of
scale diagrams!

Please note that it does not matter to the application if the measurements you
enter are in inches or metric, just do not mix the two systems.
