Nevil Shute's last book "Trustee from the Toolroom" is a must-read for every
HSM.  Shute, an aeronautical engineer, is a superb writer and, because of his
occupation, gets the metalworking details in the book right.

In the book, the hero, Keith Stewart, a model engineer who writes for a
metalworking magazine (surely modeled after the British icon, "Model
Engineer") becomes the guardian (trustee) for his orphaned niece.  He buys her
a toy duck and offers to make her some eggs for the duck to sit upon.  Being
an HSM, he intends to make the eggs from various types of metal.  The book
provides a detailed description of him making the eggs at the lathe.  Being
very skilled, he makes them 'by eye' using little more than a scraper and some
emory paper.

Now, I know from my woodcarving days, that the subtle shape of an egg is one
of the most difficult 3D shapes to achieve freehand.  Intrigued by the book, I
wondered, "Is it possible to mathematically model the shape of an egg and use
that model to create a program that will allow incremental shaping of the form
on the lathe?".

This program is the result of that effort.

The equation I finally used for the egg shape is:

	x^2/a^2 + (1-k*x) * y^2/b^2 = 1

which produces an asymmetrical ellipse.  The diameter of the egg at its
thickest part is 2*b and its length is controlled by the parameter 'a'.  The
value of 'k' controls the asymmetry of the egg.

In practice, it takes a bit of simultaneous fiddling with all three parameters
to produce a satisfying egg shape.  For this demonstration program, I used:

	stock diameter = 1"
		b = 0.5"
		a = 0.75"
		k = 0.6

and got something that looks pretty good to me.

Since it's questionable just how many people want to turn metal eggs, I
hardwired these values into the program.  They can't be changed without
recompiling the program.  The primary purposes of the program were to satisfy
my curiosity, model egg shapes mathematically, and provide a tribute to Nevil
Shute.  I think I've done that.  If anyone is seriously interested in making
eggs on his lathe, contact me (mklotz@alum.mit.edu) and I can put together a
version of the program that allows the user to manipulate the egg parameters
without recompiling.


