	I like to make tapered spoke flywheels for my engines because I think
they look rather elegant.  Since most of my engine models are small, I machine
the flywheels from solid stock rather than fabricating them from separate
pieces.

	Starting with a cylindrical blank on the lathe, I machine a reduced
thickness web that separates the central hub from the rim.  Then I mount this
blank on the rotary table and define the corners of the cutouts with holes
drilled through the web.  After these holes are drilled, I use a milling cutter
to machine away the material defined by the holes in the web - what remains are
the tapered spokes.

	The included .jpg image should make clear how this process works and
what the associated calculations are.

	The calculations are tricky and error-prone - especially those for
offsetting the rotary table to cut along the spoke edge.  I wrote a program to
do all the calculations and produce an output file to print and take to the
shop.  Note that the important angle, phi, is found by solving a
transcendental equation by iteration - something to try one's patience if done
by hand but a piece of cake for a computer.

	For an arbitrary choice of spoke dimensions, the angles for drilling
the outer holes in the web can get to be messy as the first part of the
solution obtained with the defaults will show.  Since the exact spoke
dimensions are seldom critical, the program also generates a solution in which
the angles for the outer holes are integer values and adjusts the other
dimensions to suit this choice.  Just ignore this solution and live with the
messy angles if you're finicky about the spoke proportions.

	The spoke tapering can be defined in two ways.  Either the offset of
the outer hole from the spoke centerline (d2 in the diagram) or the angle of
the outer hole relative to the spoke centerline (theta2 in the diagram) can be
specified.  The program allows you to use either method.

	Although the diagram shows the inner and outer holes as different
diameters, this is not required.  The defaults are set up for the case where
the inner and outer holes are the same diameter and the tapering is
accomplished by angling the outer holes seven degrees away from the spoke
centerline.

	As with most of my programs, no attempt is made to check for
unreasonable inputs.  Your construction sketch should be examined for problems
such as overlapping holes, etc.  If you find real errors in the program,
contact me at mklotz@alum.mit.edu.
