	Rather than setting up the four-jaw chuck, a quick way to turn an
eccentric on the lathe is to place a piece of packing material between one of
the jaws of the three-jaw chuck and the work.  This will shift the geometric
axis of the workpiece away from the spin axis of the lathe and allow one to
turn what is normally termed an eccentric (as opposed to a cam, which is
typically not cylindrical in form).

	Calculating the thickness of the packing to use for a given eccentric
offset is non-trivial so I wrote a tiny program to perform the calculation.
One of the inputs it requires from the user is the "width of the chuck jaws".
Be careful here.  The width referred to is the width of that part of the jaw
that actually contacts the work, not the width of the (generally wider) part
of the jaw that rides in the chuck slot.  For instance, on my chuck, the jaw
body is about 5/8" wide but tapers to a 3/8" width where it contacts the
work.  The correct measurement to use in this case is 3/8".

	Measuring the jaw width can be tricky and the packing idea doesn't make
for the most stable of supports.  Fortunately there is a better way to turn
eccentrics in a three-jaw.

	Imagine a tube bored to be a sliding fit on the parent stock.  A slot
of sufficient width to pass one of the three-jaw chuck jaws is milled in this
tube.  The parent stock is inserted in the bore and the whole thing clamped in
the three-jaw chuck such that one jaw passes through the slot to seat on the
parent stock while the other two jaws seat on the circumference of the tube. 
Obviously the centerline of the parent stock is offset from the lathe spindle
axis and turning will produce an eccentric.  If we know the OD of the parent
stock and the amount of the offset required, it's possible to calculate the OD
of the tube needed to produce just that offset when clamped as described
above.  That's exactly what ECCENTUB does.

Update 9/01:

David Hoskins of Australia pointed out an error in my coding of the pertinent
equation - thanks, Dave.  Furthermore, he pointed out some subtle points that I
had missed - points that affect the calculation when the required packing is
very small or very large.  I have incorportated his corrections in the current
version.

David has written a Windows program to implement his calculations.  Users
interested in that program should contact David directly at:

			davhos@magna.com.au
