	For the HSM who doesn't necessarily have access to commercial
equipment, cutting large holes in plate can be a trial.  Since drilling is the
most efficient mechanical method for removing metal, chain drilling a circle of
holes and cutting out the resulting "slug" is a very viable technique.

	This program does the necessary calculations for that operation.  The
sample output below, annotated with my comments, should make the procedure
obvious.

CHAIN DRILLING LARGE HOLES
 
Diameter of final hole [3 in] ?

	This is the *final* size of the hole we wish to form.  The diameter of
the hole resulting from the chain drilling will be smaller than this by twice
the value of the radial allowance input below.

Radial allowance for finish machining [0.05 in] ?

	Because of the scalloped edge resulting from the chain drilling, we
will probably finish machine the hole in the lathe or on the milling machine
with a boring head.  We want to leave some material for that final operation.

Drill diameter [0.25 in] ?

	Up to you.  The smaller the hole, the larger the usable material left
in the slug, if that's an issue.  On the other hand, smaller drill sizes mean
drilling more holes.  See below.

Approximate web thickness [0.05 in] ?

	We want to leave some material between adjacent holes else the drill
will want to wander into the adjacent hole when drilling.  Ultimately, we'll
have to saw (or chisel) through this web to free the slug, so we don't want it
too thick.  The number input is only approximate - the ultimate web thickness
will be calculated (below) and, since we can only drill an integer number of
holes, its final value is at the mercy of the mathematics.  As you'll see
below, the final value is generally pretty close to the approximate value
input.  Since the web thickness isn't critical, this variation is unimportant.
	

Program output:
 
Number of holes = 27

	Well, that's a lot of holes to drill.  Maybe we want to use a larger
drill.  That's the advantage of the program.  We can try a number of options
quickly on the computer before doing any "real" work.

Diameter of drilling circle = 2.650 in

	The holes will be drilled on a circle of this diameter.

Final web thickness = 0.058 in

	Pretty close to the desired 0.050.

Angle between adjacent holes = 13.333 deg

	Just for reference.

Chordal distance between adjacent holes = 0.308 in

	Laying out the holes can be done in a variety of ways.  If you want to
use xy coordinates on the milling machine, you can use the BOLTCIRC program on
my page to do an xy layout of 27 holes on a 2.650" circle.  OTOH, since this
isn't super critical, you can scribe a circle of that diameter and step off
chords of 0.308" to locate the holes.

	If the idea of drilling 27 holes doesn't appeal to you, run the program
again with a larger drill diameter, as below:


CHAIN DRILLING LARGE HOLES
 
Diameter of final hole [3 in] ?
Radial allowance for finish machining [0.05 in] ?
Drill diameter [0.25 in] ? .375			(3/8 drill instead of 1/4)
Approximate web thickness [0.05 in] ?
 
Number of holes = 18
Diameter of drilling circle = 2.525 in
Final web thickness = 0.064 in
Angle between adjacent holes = 20.000 deg
Chordal distance between adjacent holes = 0.438 in

	Only 18 holes and note that the web thickness is still pretty close to
the desired value.  In general, the smaller the drill used, the closer the
desired web thickness can be approximated.

A very similar technique can be used to cut circular plates from sheet stock.
Here it's the size of the slug resulting from the operation that we wish to
control.  The mathematics are only slightly different.  The included program,
PLATE, addresses this problem.

mklotz@alum.mit.edu
